README.md, before:

# 🦕 Deno Dinosaur Game Tutorial

A comprehensive step-by-step tutorial for building a customizable dinosaur game using Deno, TypeScript, and modern web technologies.

## 🎯 Tutorial Overview

This tutorial teaches Deno development by building a complete game from scratch. Each stage builds on the previous one, introducing new concepts and features progressively.

## 📚 Tutorial Structure

### **Stage Branches**
Each stage has its own branch with complete working code:

- `stage-1-setup` - Deno environment and basic server
- `stage-2-canvas` - HTML5 Canvas and animation
- `stage-3-character` - Dinosaur character and physics
- `stage-4-physics` - Advanced physics and collision
- `stage-5-obstacles` - Obstacle system and gameplay
- `stage-6-database` - Deno KV integration
- `stage-7-config` - Environment and configuration
- `stage-8-multiplayer` - WebSocket multiplayer
- `stage-9-assets` - Asset management
- `stage-10-observability` - OpenTelemetry monitoring
- `stage-11-testing` - Testing and QA
- `stage-12-production` - Production deployment

### **Advanced Extensions**
- `stage-13-pwa` - Progressive Web App
- `stage-14-ai` - AI integration
- `stage-15-analytics` - Analytics and BI

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- [Deno](https://deno.land/) 1.40+
- Git
- VS Code (recommended)

### Getting Started

1. **Clone the repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone <your-repo-url>
   cd deno-dinosaur-tutorial
   ```

2. **Choose a starting stage**:
   ```bash
   # Start from the beginning
   git checkout stage-1-setup
   
   # Or jump to a specific stage
   git checkout stage-3-character
   ```

3. **Install Deno** (if not already installed):
   ```bash
   curl -fsSL https://deno.land/install.sh | sh
   ```

4. **Run the stage**:
   ```bash
   deno task dev
   ```

5. **Open in browser**:
   Visit `http://localhost:8000`

## 📖 Stage Guide

### Stage 1: Environment Setup
**Branch**: `stage-1-setup`
**Time**: 15 minutes

Learn Deno basics and create your first web server.

**Key concepts**:
- Deno installation and permissions
- Basic HTTP server
- Static file serving
- Project configuration

**Deploy**: 
```bash
git checkout stage-1-setup
deno task dev
```

### Stage 2: Canvas Foundation
**Branch**: `stage-2-canvas`
**Time**: 20 minutes

Build the visual foundation with HTML5 Canvas.

**Key concepts**:
- Canvas 2D API
- Animation loops
- Performance monitoring
- Interactive drawing

### Stage 3: Character Creation
**Branch**: `stage-3-character`
**Time**: 25 minutes

Create your dinosaur character with animations.

**Key concepts**:
- Object-oriented design
- Game entities
- Animation systems
- Physics simulation

**[Continue with all stages...]**

## � What You'll Build

By the end of this tutorial, you'll have:

- ✅ A fully functional dinosaur game
- ✅ Real-time multiplayer support
- ✅ Persistent high scores with Deno KV
- ✅ Customizable assets and themes
- ✅ Production-ready deployment
- ✅ Comprehensive monitoring
- ✅ Full test coverage

## 🎓 Learning Outcomes

You'll master:
- **Deno fundamentals** and ecosystem
- **TypeScript** in production
- **Game development** patterns
- **Real-time communication** with WebSockets
- **Database operations** with Deno KV
- **Modern deployment** strategies
- **Production monitoring** and observability

## 🔗 Resources

- [Deno Documentation](https://deno.land/manual)
- [Deno Deploy](https://deno.com/deploy)
- [Tutorial Video Series](https://youtube.com/playlist/deno-dinosaur-tutorial)
- [Community Discord](https://discord.gg/deno-dinosaur)

## 📝 Contributing

Found an issue or want to improve the tutorial? 

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## � License

This tutorial is open source under the MIT License.

---

**Ready to start?** Checkout `stage-1-setup` and let's build something amazing! 🦕

Commit message:

� Clean Stage 1: Foundation & Setup Only
✅ Removed files that don't belong in Stage 1:
- static/game.js (belongs in later stages)
- static/config.js (advanced configuration)
- static/game-objects.js (Stage 3+ content)
- static/asset-manager.js (advanced feature)
- static/index.html (tutorial hub - not Stage 1)
- config.ts, game-objects.ts, game.ts (server-side advanced files)
- themes.json, tutorial.md (advanced features)
- stages/ directory (documentation that belongs elsewhere)

� Stage 1 now contains ONLY:
- main.ts (Deno server)
- deno.json (Deno config)
- static/game-stage1.js (Stage 1 implementation)
- static/index-stage1.html (Stage 1 demo)
- README.md & README-STAGE1.md (documentation)

�️ This is a clean foundation stage that focuses on:
- Development environment setup
- Basic project structure
- Canvas initialization
- Event handling foundation
- Game class architecture

Ready for learners to start with a clear, focused Stage 1!

README.md, after:

# 🦕 Dino Game Tutorial - Stage 1: Foundation & Setup

A comprehensive 24-stage tutorial series for building a Chrome Dino-style game using Deno and TypeScript.

## 🎯 **Current Stage: 1 - Foundation & Setup**

This repository contains **Stage 1** of the tutorial, which focuses on establishing the foundation and development environment.

### ✅ **Stage 1 Accomplishments:**
- ✅ Deno server setup with TypeScript support
- ✅ Canvas initialization and rendering pipeline  
- ✅ Event handling system foundation
- ✅ Game class architecture
- ✅ Interactive demonstration system
- ✅ Professional UI design

- `stage-1-setup` - Deno environment and basic server
- `stage-2-canvas` - HTML5 Canvas and animation
- `stage-3-character` - Dinosaur character and physics
- `stage-4-physics` - Advanced physics and collision
- `stage-5-obstacles` - Obstacle system and gameplay
- `stage-6-database` - Deno KV integration
- `stage-7-config` - Environment and configuration
- `stage-8-multiplayer` - WebSocket multiplayer
- `stage-9-assets` - Asset management
- `stage-10-observability` - OpenTelemetry monitoring
- `stage-11-testing` - Testing and QA
- `stage-12-production` - Production deployment

### **Advanced Extensions**
- `stage-13-pwa` - Progressive Web App
- `stage-14-ai` - AI integration
- `stage-15-analytics` - Analytics and BI

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- [Deno](https://deno.land/) 1.40+
- Git
- VS Code (recommended)

### Getting Started

1. **Clone the repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone <your-repo-url>
   cd deno-dinosaur-tutorial
   ```

2. **Choose a starting stage**:
   ```bash
   # Start from the beginning
   git checkout stage-1-setup
   
   # Or jump to a specific stage
   git checkout stage-3-character
   ```

3. **Install Deno** (if not already installed):
   ```bash
   curl -fsSL https://deno.land/install.sh | sh
   ```

4. **Run the stage**:
   ```bash
   deno task dev
   ```

5. **Open in browser**:
   Visit `http://localhost:8000`

## 📖 Stage Guide

### Stage 1: Environment Setup
**Branch**: `stage-1-setup`
**Time**: 15 minutes

Learn Deno basics and create your first web server.

**Key concepts**:
- Deno installation and permissions
- Basic HTTP server
- Static file serving
- Project configuration

**Deploy**: 
```bash
git checkout stage-1-setup
deno task dev
```

### Stage 2: Canvas Foundation
**Branch**: `stage-2-canvas`
**Time**: 20 minutes

Build the visual foundation with HTML5 Canvas.

**Key concepts**:
- Canvas 2D API
- Animation loops
- Performance monitoring
- Interactive drawing

### Stage 3: Character Creation
**Branch**: `stage-3-character`
**Time**: 25 minutes

Create your dinosaur character with animations.

**Key concepts**:
- Object-oriented design
- Game entities
- Animation systems
- Physics simulation

**[Continue with all stages...]**

## � What You'll Build

By the end of this tutorial, you'll have:

- ✅ A fully functional dinosaur game
- ✅ Real-time multiplayer support
- ✅ Persistent high scores with Deno KV
- ✅ Customizable assets and themes
- ✅ Production-ready deployment
- ✅ Comprehensive monitoring
- ✅ Full test coverage

## 🎓 Learning Outcomes

You'll master:
- **Deno fundamentals** and ecosystem
- **TypeScript** in production
- **Game development** patterns
- **Real-time communication** with WebSockets
- **Database operations** with Deno KV
- **Modern deployment** strategies
- **Production monitoring** and observability

## 🔗 Resources

- [Deno Documentation](https://deno.land/manual)
- [Deno Deploy](https://deno.com/deploy)
- [Tutorial Video Series](https://youtube.com/playlist/deno-dinosaur-tutorial)
- [Community Discord](https://discord.gg/deno-dinosaur)

## 📝 Contributing

Found an issue or want to improve the tutorial? 

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## � License

This tutorial is open source under the MIT License.

---

**Ready to start?** Checkout `stage-1-setup` and let's build something amazing! 🦕
